Hi everyone!
In this video we will learn some best practices for handling exceptions.
First, be specific with your exception handling.
Catch specific exceptions rather than using a broad accept statement.
This allows you to handle specific errors in a more targeted manner.
To apply the first best practices, we need to know Python exception hierarchy.
That base exception is the top level class, which has a lot of subclasses like exception and exception
also has a lot of subclasses.
Second, keep exception handling concise.
Try to keep your exception handling blocks as short and concise as possible.
This makes your code more readable and easier to debug.
The second best practices should apply it in all our code to create a function to create a conditional
block, loops or anything in our code, we need to be more concise.
Makes our code more readable and easier to debug.
Second.
Third log exceptions instead of printing error messages.
Use Python building logging model to log exceptions.
This allows you to easily track and debug errors in your code.
We have Logger.debug Logger.info warning error.
It depends in our case for use.
Finally blocks for cleanup.
If your code needs to perform some cleanup tasks such as closing files or database connections, use
a finally block to ensure that the cleanup code is always executed.
If you remember, the finally block will be executed regardless if there is an exception or not.
I will add a lot of other best practices in another section with the name Python Tricks before your
exam.
And that's it for this video.